# 1. Basic Counter Project

Complete code here: [master](https://github.com/rudsonalves/counter_tests/tree/master)

This is a basic counter project refactored with the structure:

- models
  - counter.dart - a basic counter with a privade attribute `_value` and getter/setter, methods to increment/decrement/reset value;
  - limited_counter.dart - a counter limited to the range [-5, 5];
  - person.dart - a class to store the `_name` and `_surname` attributes, with getters and setters, and a special getter to generate a full name.
- pages
  - home_page.dart - show all instances of classes in models folder;
  - settings_page - a simple page for reset values in models instances.
- themes
  - colors
    - color_schemes.g.dart - a color scheme generated by [https://m3.material.io/theme-builder#/custom](https://m3.material.io/theme-builder#/custom), with small changes;
  - theme.dart - a simple theme file to define lightTheme and darkTheme.
- app.dart - a file with MaterialApp declarations
- main.dart - a simple main function to run the project.


# 2. ValueNotifier Commit

Complete code here: [value_notifier](https://github.com/rudsonalves/counter_tests/tree/value_notifier)

In this commit, I added a ValueNotifier to implement application state-management and redraw screen widgets on demand.

The transport of instances of the Counter, LimitedCounter, and Person classes continues to be done by the `Navigator.of(context).pushNamed` arguments (line 28+ in the home_page.dart module).

The implementation was made by main changes:

**Models changes:**
1. in models files, the class attibutes were declared by `ValueNotifier` like diff below:
```
- int _value = 0
+ ValueNotifier<int> $value = ValueNotifier(0);
```
2. now the setters and getters take and place values in `$value.value`, or `$name.value`/`$surname.value` for the Person class;

**Modules home_page.dart and settings_page.dart changes:**

3. now the two classes, `HomePage` and `SettingsPage`, have been transformed into `StatelessWidget`. It is not necessary for the classes to be `StateFullWidget`s, since the `ValueListenableBuilder` and `AnimatedBuilder` methods are responsible for redrawing the parts of the screen that are necessary. With that, all `setState` calls have been removed from the code;
4. `onPressed` can receive methods directly from instances of classes `HomePage` and `SettingsPage`;
5. `Text()` widgets now are called by a `ValueListenableBuilder`, replacing lines like this:
```
Text('${_counter1.value}', style: headlineMedium),
```
by 
```
ValueListenableBuilder(
  valueListenable: _counter1.$value,
  builder: (context, value, _) {
    return Text('$value', style: headlineMedium);
  },
),
```
and 
```
Text('Full Name: ${_person.fullName}'),
```
by a AnimatedBuilder like
```
AnimatedBuilder(
  animation: Listenable.merge([_person.$name, _person.$surname]),
  builder: (context, _) {
    return Text('Full Name: "${_person.fullName}"');
  },
),
```
since the method `fullName` needs to listen for changes in `_person.$name` and `_person.$surname`.


# 3. Provider to Transport Objects

Complete code here: [provider](https://github.com/rudsonalves/counter_tests/tree/provider)

In this commit I will use a wrappper around InheritedWidget to make them easier to transport objects around app widget tree. To this is necessary to install a provider package.

```
$ flutter pub add provider
```

For this code, the provier version 6.0.5 is installed.

The code changes are few, and are maked over value_notifier branch. The changes are described below:

**app.dart:**

1. a `MultiProvider` is used to warp the `MultiProvider` in the App class:

```
-   return MaterialApp(...
+   return MultiProvider(
+     providers: [
+       Provider<Counter>(create: (_) => Counter()),
+       Provider<LimitedCounter>(create: (_) => LimitedCounter()),
+       Provider<Person>(create: (_) => Person()),
+     ],
+     child: MaterialApp(...
```
with this, Counter, LimitedCounter, and Person objects are instantiated before the `MaterialApp` in the widget tree;

**pages/home_page.dart:**

2. navigation to SettingsPage is changed to. Is not longer pass parameters by arguments. The diff code below shows the changes:

```
-    Navigator.of(context).pushNamed(
-      SettingsPage.routeName,
-      arguments: [_counter1, _counter2, _person],
-    );
+    Navigator.of(context).pushNamed(SettingsPage.routeName);
```
3. the counter1, counter2, and person objects load your values from widget tree by `Provider.of<T>(Context)` comands:

```
-   final Counter _counter1 = Counter();
-   final LimitedCounter _counter2 = LimitedCounter();
-   final Person _person = Person();
+   final Counter counter1 = Provider.of<Counter>(context);
+   final LimitedCounter counter2 = Provider.of<LimitedCounter>(context);
+   final Person person = Provider.of<Person>(context);
```
The others changes in this code were cosmetics.

**pages/settings_page.dart**

4. In this module the same strategic is used again. The objects (counter1, counter2, and person) have their values loaded from the widget tree by `Provider.of<T>(Context)` comands. With this the lines 14 to 19 are replaced by:
```
+   final Counter counter1 = Provider.of<Counter>(context);
+   final LimitedCounter counter2 = Provider.of<LimitedCounter>(context);
+   final Person person = Provider.of<Person>(context);
```
And again, I made some cosmetics changes in the code.